= Hasherizer

Recursively convert object's instance variables to a flat hash.


= Why Hasherizer?

I worked on a project with the Google Books[http://code.google.com/apis/books/] API[http://code.google.com/apis/books/docs/v1/using.html] and while working on it I created the bookle[https://github.com/pepehipolito/bookle] gem. This gem queries the Google Books API and converts the returned hash from Google into objects that a Ruby program can easily use. The Google Books API returns a hash of hashes and the same structure is mimicked by the gem, ending up with objects containing other objects. This object generation makes life very easy for accessing the information but didn't work very well when instanciating a book object. What I needed was a hash that I could pass to <tt>#new</tt>.


= Why the name?

_hasher_ was already taken and I didn't like _hasherer_. _hasherizer_ sounded better. ;)


= What Hasherizer does

Hasherizer analyzes the object passed and converts all its instance variables to a flat hash. If variables contain objects that also contain instance variables, those objects are also processed and their instance variables added to the flat hash. Hasherizer works recursively until the last object is processed.

Hasherizer is concerned with objects that are hash-like (<tt>respond_to?(:to_hash) == true</tt>), that are array-like (<tt>respond_to?(:each) == true</tt>) or that contain instance variables.

Hash-like objects are returned "as is", meaning that they are not processed.

Array-like objects are processed as follows:

- If each element is hash-like then all elements are put into a flat hash and returned.
- If each element is an object containing instance variables then each element is sent for processing individually (and recursively).
- If none of the above the object itself is returned as is.

Objects that contain instance variables are sent for processing and after they are processed we will either have a hash or an object/value that is not a hash. If a hash is returned then it's added to the final flat hash. If no hash is returned the object is assigned to its instance variable's key and added to the final flat hash.

The returned value is a flat, one level hash.

For a better understanding of how it works check the code of the tests.


= How to use it

<tt>Hasherizer.to_hash(an_object)</tt>


= Gotchas

Hasherizer merges deeper level objects into top level ones. This means that if different objects have the same instance variable name the values will be overriden at some point due to the fact that hashes have unique keys. In order to overcome this issue you will need to manually create an instance <tt>#to_hash</tt> method somewhere in your model(s) to "rename" one (or all) of the instance variables. Check this gist[https://gist.github.com/1970937] for for an example.

If Hasherizer processes an array of objects of the same type (an array of book objects, for example) the instance variables will be overriden successively and only the last one will prevail.


== Contact Info
 
I can be contacted at pepe.hipolito@gmail.com[pepe.hipolito@gmail.com].


== Contributing to Hasherizer
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Fork the project.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 Pepe Hipolito. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.
